# SkyCast Weather Application Prototype

# TODO:
	- As of the initial upload, I am currently familiarizing myself with testing functionality, specifically the [Authorize] decorator on the PreviousSearchController class so I will upload updated tests once I can resolve this issue.
	- Re-factor view code using partials.
		- So far, I only have one partial which creates a div tag with the helper of Bootstrap to display the error message styled with Bootstrap CSS's text-danger class.
		
# Background Information:

- Originally, this was an assignment I was given from a prior job interview as a technical assignment.
	- I have a running demo written in Rails 5 and Ruby which can be seen [here](https://tt-weather-forecast.herokuapp.com/)
		- I do not have the source code posted on a public repository, you can email me at wptran58@gmail.com for the source code.
		
- I chose to implement this weather forecast web application as I felt it would be a good project which covers a wide amount of topics that I should familiarize myself with to learn ASP.NET MVC 5 and C#.
	- Some areas would be working at the database layer, working with back-end development, some brief exposure to front-end technologies such as: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

- Bootstrap and CSS were used for styling.

- To query the forecasts that are stored by a logged in/authenticated user I used [LINQ] (https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/gg509017.aspx)
	- The above is a link which I used to view some examples to familiarize myself with LINQ.
		
- For my database I decided to use SQL Server (which comes with Visual Studio 2017).
	- The schema has a total of eight tables although I only used four of the tables.
	- There are five tables that were automatically generated due to the ApplicationDBContext class.
        - The first table holds the Users.
			- This was generated by the Entity Framework which I briefly describe below.
        - The second table holds the Searches by users.
            - A foreign key is used to connect this to the logged in and authenticated user that made the search.
        - The third table holds the hourly forecasts.
            - A foreign key is used to connect this to the search that was made (this only occurs if the user is logged in and authenticated).
        - The fourth table holds the daily forecasts.
            - A foreign key is used to connect this to the search that was made (this only occurs if the user is logged in and authenticated).    
    - All of the tables have an index on the ID to help speed up a query when filtering for a search ID, or forecast ID,
    or a user ID.

- I used the [Entity Framework](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/mvc/overview/getting-started/getting-started-with-ef-using-mvc/creating-an-entity-framework-data-model-for-an-asp-net-mvc-application) to help with user authentication.

- I used [Paged List](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/mvc/overview/getting-started/getting-started-with-ef-using-mvc/sorting-filtering-and-paging-with-the-entity-framework-in-an-asp-net-mvc-application) for pagination of search history and the displaying of forecasts.

- I used [CanvasJS](https://canvasjs.com/docs/charts/integration/asp-net-mvc-charts/types/asp-net-mvc-bar-charts/) to create bar charts of the hourly and daily forecasts after querying data from the Darksky API.

# Some notes about this in development mode:
	- The Google Geocode and Darksky API keys are stored in environment variables, I did this for convenience but there are secure ways to store these keys, some of which are listed [here] (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/identity/overview/features-api/best-practices-for-deploying-passwords-and-other-sensitive-data-to-aspnet-and-azure)
    
# Demo:
- I will be uploading this to Microsoft's Azure within a week or two of this initial upload so I will upload this README then with the running demo.